I graduated from there in 1949 and then came down
here the following September as a freshman at A&M.
But you did well enough at Waco High School to
graduate and get accepted at A&M. Yes. I was
probably in the second quarter of my class, but I'd
been so long number one in my class in everything
that I'd done that second quarter was almost a
failure the way I'd looked at it. Yeah. Did you have
favorite subjects? Did you like the science that
you came to? No, not at all. The only thing that I
liked English, I liked literature. I didn't like
math. I didn't like science. I loved history. The
only thing I liked about chemistry was that there
was a lady that was a chemistry professor there by
the name of Helen Dumont. I'll never forget her.
I'd been, I was a junior, and I'd been in chemistry
all maybe a couple months, and making B's and C's,
you know. One day, and Helen was a very rough
talking lady, you know, she was, just barked at
everybody, and everybody was scared to death,
Helen, do you mind? And so, one day she said, Okay,
class is dismissed, but Cargill, I want to see you
for a minute after class. Well, that boy, the
adrenaline just flooded. And she said, I've been
watching you. And she said, I want to ask you
something. I said, don't you eat down in the
cafeteria every day at noon? And I said, yeah, I
sure do. And she said, you get a good balanced meal
down there, don't you? I said, yes, ma'am, I sure
do. She says, well, while you're down there in that
cafeteria getting a well-balanced meal, All the
other kids that are getting ahead by making
friendships and making associations and so forth
across the street, hamburger heaven, eating a
hamburger. She said, you're a nice kid. And she
said, I hate for you to see you clam up and stay
inside of yourself. She said, I want you to get over
there and start eating hamburgers instead of
staying in the cafeteria. She said, on top of that,
elections are coming up for some of the class
officers and different things. She said, I want
you to run for something. Well, I was literally
scared to death, and she knew it. She was trying to
pull me out of my shell. In a priority complex like
you would not believe, I was literally scared in my
own shadow because I was in such a strange
environment, and she knew it. So I said, oh, I
couldn't do that, you know. Well, to make a long
story short, I did start going over and eating
hamburgers. I did start meeting friends. And she
said, now, I'm serious about you running for
something. You come back and tell me what you want
to run for. Well, at that time, we had yell leaders.
And I never was good at sports. Didn't play
football because mother didn't want me to get my
hands hurt because I was going to be a surgeon
someday. You know how that goes. But anyway, I did
play some basketball. I was a pretty good
basketball player and a real good tennis player.
Went to a regional meet a couple of times.
She called me and she said, OK. He said, what are you
going to run for? And I said, well, I decided I want
to run for . Well, at that time, my dad was a rural
mail carrier, as I mentioned. And he had a lot of mud
on his route. So he drove a four-wheel drive Jeep.
And he had just bought him a brand new bright red
fire engine red Jeep. So on the dry days, he'd carry
the mail in his regular car. And I'd take the Jeep to
drive to Waco. And we plastered campaign signs all
over the Jeep. And I'd run around. school on my
lunch hour blowing the horn and had a bunch of kids
riding with me. And I came within just a few votes of
winning the election to become yell leader. I
didn't win, but I came so close it just really gave
me a lot of good feeling. It forced me to get up on the
stage and assembly and make some speeches and tell
them why I should be the yell leader. And so it
really helped me more than anything I can ever
imagine. And I'll always be grateful to Helen
Dumont for making me do that. That's a real boost in
self-confidence. Sure enough. And I bought it. I
need it. Then when I got to A&M, if you ever saw a
melting pot, this was one. My class was the last
class to be out at Bryan Air Force Base. Now, I don't
know if you recall that or not, or if you've heard
about it. But we lived in barracks, 20 of us, in one
big open bay building. And we, of course, had an
upper bunk and a lower bunk. A friend of mine who
used to live in it, he was my bunk mate. And his name
was Skipper McMillan. He was my closest boyhood
friend. grown apart I don't even know where
Skipper lives now but he flunked out and he kind of
always I think felt that you know he didn't make it
and I did and so I don't know if that was the wedge
that separated us but he had a lot of problems with
drinking and two or three wives and he just kind of
didn't turn out the way everybody hoped that he
would but anyway came here as a freshman spent my
freshman year out of Bryan Air Force Base then came
to the campus was over in dorm six as a sophomore.
Loved the Corps, loved everything about the
Corps. We're going to get to that. OK. I want to ask
you about the time that you were ready to graduate
from high school. Your mom wants you to be a
physician. Did you have aims? Did you have goals?
Was there something that you wanted? I wanted to be
a doctor, primarily because she wanted me to be,
right up until my graduation in high school. Well,
that brings the question, then, why did you come to
Texas A&M? Because almost all of the generals I've
talked to wanted to be an engineer, or some of them
business. But almost all of them want to be
engineers. And most people who wanted to be
physicians either went to Baylor or to the
University of Texas. I had an uncle, Thomas Elijah
Cole. And Uncle Tommy went to A&M. He graduated in
1938. And the whole family thought A&M was just a
super place. And I'm not sure that it ever really
dawned on Mother that if you wanted to be a doctor,
you did not come to A&M at that time. And so we just
always kind of assumed that someday I was going to
come to A&M. But I think as after I got to Waco High
School, and I did so poorly in biology, did so
poorly in chemistry, did so poorly in a lot of my
other subjects, that mother realized that
probably I would never be a doctor so then she
really started pushing the A&M bit. She didn't
have to push very hard because I've always been
inclined toward the military. I think a lot of that
stemmed from my intense interest in the Second
World War. Ok, that's another question I wanted to
ask. Why and how did you get interested in the
military? I was a paper boy. I started carrying the
paper when I was 12 years old, which was maybe in 31,
41. That would be 1943, which was at the height of
the war. And as I would fold papers, I would read the
headlines and would read the paper intently. Of
course, during those days, we had no television,
but the radio was so real. And the newscasters
would come on, and I'd always listen to the news
reports on the war. Sit in Dad's lap or by him, and
we'd all listen to the news reports. And I
developed an intense interest in that, plus the
fact that I was always very active in the Boy
Scouts. Dad was a scoutmaster, and I was in a little
country town like that. All the kids in town were in
the Boy Scouts. And we'd go out on camping. We had
uniforms, and I was proud of my uniform. And I
excelled and did well in the Boy Scouts and only
became a life scout. I never made Eagle. I ran out of
time before I I had to get involved in other things.
But in any event, the wearing of the uniform and
keeping my shoes shiny, it just appealed to me. And
so I would say that the thing that really whetted my
interest in getting me to A&M were really two
things, the Boy Scouts and the affinity for the
wearing of the uniform and the Second World War.
The Second World War had a tremendous impact on me.
And how else besides getting you to A&M?
The realization that, well, there was a certain
beauty in the teamwork involved. It fascinated me
how millions of people could be involved in a
conflict with a common goal. And that fascination
was not limited to just our side. I had a tremendous
respect for the for the German army, for example,
and some of the German generals. And I'm not sure if
I had it at that time or if I've developed it since
then and through historical readings and
different things.
But the beauty of an organization and men marching
in columns, you've probably detected by now I'm
very emotional about some things. And for
example, Stars and Stripes Forever is a song that
always chokes me up. I don't know why, because it
conjures up visions of vast armies marching, all
with a common goal. It's just something almost
spiritual.
What did you ever consider West Point? I never
really did, and I don't know why. I really don't
know why. I guess unless I just felt that that was so
far beyond reality that it was just too much to hope
for. But
once I got to A&M, then the Corps continued to
emphasize some of the feelings that I'd already
had before I got here. So one main reason you'd say
for coming to A&M was because of the Corps? Yes.
Because it was here so you could participate in a
military organization? Of course, the Corps and
the University were one at that time. It was
mandatory. Everybody was in the Corps. So in other
words, if you came to A&M, you bought the package
deal. You had no choices. Either you came to A&M
100% in the Corps, militarily oriented, or you
went somewhere else. But I would say a combination
of my uncle's influence, since he was an Aggie, He
had polio when he was a young man, and he was
crippled. But even then, they would let people who
were physically disabled in the Corps, they would
not give them commissions. Just like today, we
have drill and ceremony excuses. And I don't know
if you noticed or not, but they're the guys that
wear the A&M patch on both shoulders. They don't
have an Air Force or an Army patch on their left
shoulder. No, I didn't notice that. That's
interesting. Those people, if you see an A&M patch
on both shoulders, that's what they call a drill
and ceremony, or a DNC student. It means they're
just in the Corps because they want to be. They're
not going to be a commissioned officer. And so he
was in that category. I'm not sure they called it
that at that time, but he was in that category. And I
was very fond of my uncle. He's since deceased. But
that, coupled with the fact that I wanted to be in
the military, I wanted the commission. Well, the
A&M was a logical choice. Sure. Now, when you got
here, was it the first time you ever came to A&M?
When you got off that train. Did you get off the
train over here at the old station? No. Or did your
parents drive you down there? My father drove me
down. And at that time, we came up South College.
Texas Avenue, I'm not even sure existed, because
South College was the main connecting highway
between Bryan and College Station, and was the
main highway at that time. and it branched off and
went to Welborn down on to Houston. But the first
time I saw the college was we were coming to South
College, and you could see the administration
building, the present systems administration
building on the horizon. And that was the first
time I ever saw it when I came down here as a
freshman, or to register to become a freshman. And
it was quite a sight. It was then and is now. What did
you think of the conditions when you got here? The
course of living out, for example, living out at
the airport. Keep in mind that this is a very
unusual time for A&M. That's right. It really was.
Mine was the last class out there. Mine was the last
class out there. And out of that class came a lot of
people that are still connected with the
university in a very heavy way. Dean Cooper, our
registrar, for example, Bill Preston, our state
representative, and just on and on. Lots of people
that were in that class. And we all shared those
experiences together. I really never saw very
much of the main campus until I was a sophomore,
with one exception. And that is when they bust us in
to go to football games. And that was terrible,
because that's when we really, the upperclassmen
had a shot at it from a hazing standpoint. And
hazing then, and I'm not sure, I can't speak
authoritatively now, but hazing in that time was
intense during the football games. So we hated
football games. But once we got back out to Bryan
Air Force Base, then there was a relatively small
amount of it because there were no upperclassmen
out there. Occasionally, some renegades would
come out and raise a lot of cane. There was some of
that. But I remember the freshman year as being a
very enjoyable, interesting year. And we did a lot
of things for amusement, football in a muddy field
where everybody got muddy and marching to chow.
seeing the movies on weekends. I mentioned to you
earlier, I was a very poor student because I just
didn't like to study is my thing. And I didn't do
very much. Well, I did quite a bit of it. I've
started off as a petroleum engineering major.
Because That's what the guy in line in front of me
decided he was going to take, and that sounded good
to me, who was Skipper McMillan, this guy I was
mentioning to you. I said, boy, Skipper, that
sounds good to me. If that's good enough for you,
it's good enough for me. Well, I immediately
flunked everything I was taking just about. And
John Paul Abbott, who's still around campus, Dean
Abbott, as we call him, he was the head academic,
well, he was the head guy with academics on the NX.
And he called me into the office and he told me, he
said, it doesn't look like you're ever going to be
an engineer. And I said, yes, sir, I know. And so he
said, well, we need to change your major. What
would you like? And so at that time, you know, it was
engineering or agriculture or maybe something
called business administration. So I said, let me
try business administration. And so then, of
course, I went ahead and got my degree in business
administration and my master's in marketing and
rather my undergraduate degree was in marketing
and my master's degree was in management,
organization and management. And then I took some
courses beyond the master's level just to gain
some knowledge. I took some accounting courses
primarily. Never had any intention of pursuing a
Ph.D. program. Now this is a really unusual
situation for A&M because you have veterans still
on you still had, I would imagine, a few veterans
left from the Second World War who were just about
ready to finish up, came back in 45 and 46, and
enrolled. And there are civilians, and some of
them were even in the Corps. And then you also have
some teenage Corps kids. How did everybody get
along? Fine, basically because they had a
veteran's outfit. The veterans were not lined in
with the regular undergraduate corps, the
younger guys. They had their own outfit. They
could be civilians, couldn't they, if they wanted
to? If they wanted to. I mean, they did not have to be
in the corps. That's right. That's correct. But
all of the... And some of them, of course, are
married and have families, too. Yes, that's
right. But all of the guys in the... The outfits,
that was your family away from home. And even
though you had a mixture of seniors, juniors,
sophomores, and then, of course, later on
freshmen,
you looked out for each other. And the outfits were
very close. To this day, we have outfit reunions.
And those are my closest friends, the guys that we
were in the same outfit together. And of course,
the whole school was relatively small at that time
compared to now. And so you knew a lot of people. But
we had no problems with the older veterans,
because they kind of went their own way. And of
course, those that were in the Corps, they would
march in their outfit, and they would be in the
parades and what have you. But they weren't
intermingled with the rest of the Corps. I'm
always interested in when someone who becomes a
vice president and a general, when did they start
their leadership? When did they feel like they
were beginning a role of leadership? When was that
for you? Was it here at A&M, or was it when you ran for
Yale leader back in high school? I think that was,
well, I would have to say that when I finished my
sophomore year,
let's see, no, when I finished elementary school,
and I was the valedictorian of my class, was the
first time I'd ever excelled and felt that I was a
leader among my peers. Then my Boy Scout work
emphasized that to some degree.
The yell leader instance that I told you about in
high school was another thing that added emphasis
to the fact that I possibly had some leadership
potential. I would say at A&M, Near the middle of my
sophomore year, I was selected as a corporal. And
there were only about three or four in the whole
outfit. And that gave me some good feels, good
vibes. I'd say in the early days, those were the
events that stand out in my mind.
In later years, I belonged to an organization
called Toastmasters that did an awful lot for me as
far as self-image, and of course, as you know,
being in a job I have here as well as in the military,
I have to make a lot of presentations, do a lot of
speaking in front of not only large groups of
people in some cases, but with very high-ranking
people in some places. And so even though you never
completely get rid of the butterflies, you don't
want to get rid of all of them. You just teach them to
fly in formations, what else to do. And so I give
Toastmasters credit for an awful lot of my
success, if you can say I've had any. And basically
the role of Toastmasters is for people to give
different talks. Yes, right. It's
self-improvement through public speaking. And
it works. It really works. So in other words, a role
of leadership for you has been a gradual one. There
was never just one. Some people in World War II told
me, well, I just had to stand up and throw that hand
grenade at the people. No, nothing that dramatic
in my case. It's just been an evolving type of
thing. It's just happened. Which is how it is with
most people. OK, now let's talk about, you
mentioned this before. This is something I am
eager to talk about with former students, and that
is the hazing. You said there was plenty of hazing
when you came to the football field. What kind was
it? And I'm particularly interested in the
difference between mental and physical hazing.
And also the question, what good did it do? What
purpose did it serve? Yes, OK. To begin with, I've
seen hazing from two different aspects. I've seen
it as a student while I was a student here. And then
as you get into my resume, you'll see that after I
was out of school for a while, after I was off the
military, then I came back and my first job at Texas
A&M was as what we call a tactical officer,
commonly referred to as a bull. I was a counselor. I
wore my uniform by the virtue of the fact that I was
in the reserve, not on active duty, but still I
habitually wore the uniform all day every day. had
my office down in the dormitory area. So I was able
to see hazing from the guy's standpoint that was
trying to prevent it and to eliminate it, more
heavy. So let me start off with the student aspect
of it first.
We had been at the annex in the dormitory, in the
barracks, I'd say maybe a week.
We had heard all kinds of horror stories about the
hazing and the boarding and the different things.
90% of which weren't true. We thought they were at
the time. I'll never forget one night about 3
o'clock, about 2.30 in the morning, in the
barracks next to us, there was the oldest
commotion you've ever heard. You know, guys
yelling and screaming and hollering in
wastebaskets being thrown up and down the aisles.
Well, somebody started the rumor in the back of the
barracks, and keep in mind that there were 20 of us
in this big open bay barracks, that the upper
classmen were over next door hazing. Well, we were
literally scared to death. We weren't about to
turn on the light or stick our heads out or anything
else. Well, as it worked out, the upperclassmen
weren't anywhere near. The next morning, some of
the freshmen had gone out and gotten a bunch of beer
and gotten drunk, and they were coming in raising
their own cane. But anyway, for me to remember
that, that made such a tremendous impact on me. So
the point I'm trying to make is the hazing was not
anywhere near as bad as the anticipation of it. The
fear of it. The fear of it, yeah. But the hazing my
freshman year was entirely mental hazing. By
that, there are little rituals that you go
through, and they do even today, of introducing
yourself in a certain manner. I'm sure you've
probably seen that little routine. They call it
whipping out, where you whip out and stand in
detention. The guy puts you in a brace and sucks in
your gut and your chin and all that kind of stuff.
There were a lot of little things that we had to
memorize. For example, you couldn't say, I do not
know. you had to recite the little speech that went
along with it, which I can do until this minute
after all these years.
But it was basically, I was raised in an
environment, and a lot of us were, where the proper
conduct was to be gentle to people and to be very
considerate of the other person's feelings. You
never raised your voice if there was any other way
to do it. then suddenly you're thrown in an
environment where a sophomore with his hat pulled
down all over his face gets right up in your face
with a cigar which is blowing smoke in your face and
just yelling at you and telling you how stupid you
are and how insignificant you are. It takes a lot of
adjustment. But if you know it's coming and you
know you've got some peers in the same boat, it
develops a certain amount of toughness about you.
allows you after you've been into it for a while to
to tune the guy out and say he's not really talking
to me you know if he wants to make an ass of himself
then that's his problem it's not my problem he's
the guy that's got the problem not me we had one guy
that and this went on to some extent even when we
were sophomores because when we were on the annex
our freshman year we didn't They didn't have that
much of a shot at us. So our second year, the hazing
did take the form of boardings. Now, usually a
boarding, I don't know if you've ever seen one of
the boards we use or not, but it's a weapon. It's a
weapon. That's what it is. And usually... they
didn't get out the board for one guy. They'd have
boarding sessions where they'd get all the
sophomores in and give them licks. Usually the
ritual went along the lines that they'd get you in,
make sure they had plenty of room to swing the
board, move the beds, furniture, what have you.
Then the expression they used was to grab pooch.
That meant that you reached down and grabbed
yourself so that you wouldn't get anything
injured, pull that up out of the way, and then you'd
tighten the muscles in your rear so that it
wouldn't hurt you as bad. And at that time, very few
of us had any fat on us. It was just nearly all
muscle. But when the board would hit, and they'd
swing it as hard as they could, just like a
baseball, it would bounce almost like it was
hitting a piece of, You'd get three licks at a time.
And they'd be so intense that your rear would just
turn red and then sometimes white and then blue and
purple. And it was really a bad situation. But it
wasn't so bad that anyone that I knew ever got
injured permanently with it, although I'm sure
that there are cases where there have been some
permanent injuries. But then after a while, we got
to where we would almost antagonize
upperclassmen just to show them that we could take
anything they could dish out. Well, I had a wooden
door in my closet, and most of us kept score either
on a chair arm or on a wooden door. Well, every time
I'd get my fanny beat, well, I'd go carve a notch on
my door. Well, the notches on my door in room 305
would arm six. became kind of a badge of honor. If
somebody came and said, how many Nazis you got now?
Boy, and I'd open the door and I'd show them with
pride. I got 12 or 13. Each one stood for an
individual boarding. That was all my sophomore
year. Never had it hand on me my freshman year nor
after my sophomore year. But it all happened my
sophomore year. And near the end of our sophomore
year, the authorities started clamping down on it
and then it pretty well went away. But that was I
didn't really see too much benefit in the physical
hazing. Other than the fact to teach you that you
can accept a certain amount of pain without caving
in. And I would think that maybe in a prisoner of war
situation where there's some degree of torture,
that that might precondition you to some extent,
although I've never been in a situation like that.
But I have been in a situation many times, and
recently, where I was under intense emotional
pressure. And I always think back, even, you know,
I use it as a crutch, but that's fine, you know, as
far as I'm concerned. I always think back that no
matter what those guys say to me or no matter what
they can do to me, They couldn't possibly be as bad
as Stanley Rosenthal was when I was a freshman and
he was a sophomore, chewing on me. Nothing they
could do to be that bad, and I took that. So once you
accept that the worst that could possibly happen
to you is not all that bad, then you go ahead and you
almost kind of get tickled a little bit, and you
chuckle about the situation. So in other words,
you don't see much purpose for the physical
hazing, but you do for the mental hazing. Yes. Yes,
I do. It develops gradually. It develops a mental
toughness that you've just got to have to be in some
of the situations that I've found myself in and
will find myself in in the coming years. Maybe it
performs some of the same duty as the type of hazing
you get in any boot camp situation. Exactly. It's a
mental conditioning to accept adverse
situations. You can't go through life looking for
the tranquil way out all the time. And you try to get
things done as nicely and as gently as possible,
but you can't always do that. And so I don't ever
mean to be insubordinate. I mean, I'm a very strong
believer in subordination. It's the only way any
system's going to work is through subordination.
But if you get to the point where you can't accept
the boss's instructions, then it's time to resign
and go somewhere else. But I've always been very
fortunate in that I've always had good bosses and
people that I've respected and, for the most part,
have agreed wholeheartedly with their programs.
But I will say that the mental hazing was, I have no
problems with mental hazing. I think that it's a
positive thing, although it may be hard to see at
the time. I'm all for it. By the same token, I think
that physical hazing serves no useful purpose. It
really doesn't. And when you came back later as a
reserve officer, did you attempt to get rid of this
physically? Yes, and we pretty well had it clamped
down. There were a number of us that were involved
in that aspect of the thing, and it was rare, I feel,
when we had anyone that did any physical hazing.
But mental hazing, of course, went on all the time.
And with our knowledge, and as long as it didn't get
out of hand, we felt that it was a positive thing.
Just like today, they don't try to restrict the
kids from yelling at a freshman, but just don't
touch him. That's the thing. OK. There's a couple
I've heard just from various sources. These might
be rumors, and therefore I wanted just to, since
you were on the scene at the time, I want to sort of
try to clarify this. One was I heard that. The
reason why they put people in the airport area, the
freshmen in the airport area, was not just because
of overcrowding with the veterans coming back,
but was because the hazing had got so bad.
Therefore, they wanted to separate the new
freshmen from the three other classes. I don't
believe there's anything to that at all. I
honestly don't. I've never had any indication
that that was even a remote reason for us being
there. And another thing is I've heard from
various A&M graduates that they're the
most Aggie or the most die-hard Aggies. The former
students were those who graduated in the 50s
before this university became of Coed University
and when it was still an A&M college. What do you
think about that? Now they'd probably say the most
conservative Aggies. I would tend to say that if I
had to say yes or no, that I would say yes. Of course,
that, like everything else, is a shade of gray. But
I would say that as far as what we call Aggie spirit,
almost fanatical defense of the university,
defense of each other, sticking together. I've
seen it. I've been here for 23 years on the staff
and, of course, as a student before that.
There's a lot of spirit here now, but it's a
different kind of spirit. It's not fanatical.
It's a more reasoned spirit. It's something that
you do because you want to, whereas in our case,
when we started out, we had no choice. But then we
got to where we didn't want a choice. It was almost a
type of brainwashing, I'd say. But it was a
welcomed, positive time. I would say yes, that I
would have to agree with your initial statement,
that back in those days when it was all core, all
mandatory core, There was a closer group,
probably to some extent because it was a smaller
group, but we all were pretty well out of the same
mold, very conservative,
a lot of patriotism, a lot of feeling of pride when
the flag went by. And I'm sure that those feelings
still exist, but they're just not as open and as
apparent now as they were then. I will say that I
think probably our students now are a lot smarter,
have a lot more potential than a lot of our group did
because of the fact that they're better rounded
people. We had a pretty narrow upbringing, and
we'll never overcome that. I'm not sure it's a
disadvantage, but it's a fact. And of course, you
have to deal with this all the time in your position
today. Oh, yeah. I'm probably have a broader
perspective than most because of the fact that I
have been here for so long. And I deal with a lot of
young people. And seen the change. Yes. And I've
accepted the change much more readily than
someone that, say, graduated from here and then
went off somewhere. But I've had no problems
accepting the changes. I think they've all been
positive. And that, of course, goes right with my
initial question that the people who are the most
against many of the changes of the 1960s were those
graduates in the 50s. This is the generalization I
heard. Whereas the people who graduated in
another very important decade for this
university, the 30s, and then who became general
officers later on after the Second World War,
Those people have really broadened it in a very
different way, and yes, they had the same old
spirit, but they didn't have what you said, what
the fanaticism of those people of the 50s. Why do
you think there is such a difference in the 30s
generation graduates versus the versus the 50s.
And then, of course, since we've opened the door,
there's an entirely new idea of the graduates
today. I'd say the people graduating in the 70s are
much more receptive to change. Why is that? Why are
those 50 people that way? I don't know, unless we
were all Of course, all being in the same age group,
we were all formed by the same pressures, the
influence of the Depression, the influence of the
Second World War, the influence of a time when
family authority was intense most places. You
didn't question parental authority. That was
just a given. Whereas nowadays, I would suspect
that there's more questioning of In other words, I
wouldn't dream of asking my daddy why if he told me
to do something, even today. But the kids nowadays
want to know why. They won't accept something just
on face value because I say so. And I think that's
probably healthy, as long as it doesn't get out of
bounds. But I think that probably the reason is
that we all shared a lot of very emotional,
common occurrences through the Depression,
through the Second World War. I don't think
there's any way that you can place the impact that
the Second World War had on the life of people in my
age group. What about the period after the Second
World War? I'm not trying to put words in your
mouth, but the period after the Second World War,
in which we thought we had won, and then we felt so
disillusioned by 1947 when Eastern Europe had
that dictatorship just being replaced by another
one, Nazis versus the Communists. It can't help
but contribute to a lot of frustration. And Korea,
leading to Korea. You know, we were all the big
slogan going around that this is the war to end all
wars. And then it became very evident very shortly
that that was not the case, nor is it likely to ever
be the case during our lifetime. It just leads you
to the conclusion that our way of life is worth
defending, and we'll do that. OK, let's go to
another issue, and that is the Corps itself. I need
to take a little break. You want to walk down the
hall a minute? I'm interested in a question that I
ask all the generals, and I always get a lot of
different remarks on this one. Was that a yes on
another coat? Yes. Please. And that is, what did
you like and what did you dislike about being in the
Corps?
At the time, I disliked the hazing, all parts of the
hazing. In retrospect, as I mentioned earlier, I
think that the positive aspects of the metal
hazing far outweighed any temporary
inconvenience. Other than that, I don't know of
anything that I disliked about the core. I liked
everything about it. I liked the drilling. I liked
the regimentation of living by the clock. I like
the call to quarters when you're required to
study. I like the inspections. I like keeping my
uniform sharp. I like the line of authority that
you had between, in other words, the chain of
command up through your commander. I still do. I
think that probably had a lot to do with my interest
in management and organizational structure.
Sure. And the fact that it's so important
to stick to some of the real basics and unity of
command and things like that. One of the things
that I think is wrong with part of our university
operation and systems operation right now is that
we've gotten away from the basics as far as
organizational structure goes. We've got too
many people trying to call the shot. as a result,
there's always conflict. But you've got to have
unity of command, and we always had that in the
Corps. It was a very clear, simple line, and you
know who the boss was, and you knew who you were
supposed to please. And when you don't know what
the rules are and who you're supposed to please,
frustration is the result. And I think that's why a
lot of people are frustrated, is that they're not
really sure what is expected of them and who
they're supposed to please. But I like those
aspects of the Corps. So in other words, it seems to
me, and again, I don't want to put words in your
mouth, you like the military aspects of the Corps.
Yes. How about the spirit? Oh, yes. I like it. I like
it very much. I enjoyed the yells and the songs. I'm
surprised you didn't mention the camaraderie.
Yes, I did. That was a... Very close-knit bunch.
Almost
like brothers. Like family. But that was
primarily by class within an outfit. Now the
outfit, of course, had its identity. But classes
within the outfit are the ones that stuck together
like glue and helped pull each other through.
Those are the ones that got closed. Class 53, for
example.
The Class 53 in B Air Force was very, very close, and
all the outfits were. To this day, we are. We'll
have our 30th class reunion coming up this fall,
and we'll probably all get together over at my
house and talk about old times. I want to ask you a
similar question, the one that we just are
discussing. And that is, in what ways do you think
that the Corps helped your career And are there any
ways in which you think I might have hindered your
career? I don't know of any way that it hindered my
career at all. I think it helped my career in that
wherever you go in the military, there are always
Maggie's around. You've almost got immediate
acceptance
by the fact that you did graduate from A&M. I think
the fact that so many of our graduates have done
well and have exhibited a high degree of
discipline and professionalism, then when
someone knows that you're a graduate of A&M, they
assume that you're also going to fit that mold. So
in other words, a lot of hard work and good work by
people older than me, I reap the benefits from
that. And hopefully the younger people can do the
same because of me the way I conduct myself. So it's
a mold. It's a pattern that evolves. And so you can
make certain assumptions about a guy that came
through the Corps at A&M without ever having met
him before. And usually they're not too far from
being correct assumptions. So those types of
precedent-setting things definitely help me.
Plus the fact that the Corps teaches you to be kind
of outgoing, boisterous, if you want to use that
word. you
won't be around too many Aggies very many places
that have gone through the Corps that are not
you're not around very long before you find that
out they'll let you know real quick that they went
through the Corps at A&M they're proud of it and of
course you've got to be prepared to catch a certain
amount of flack coming back at you but that's part
of the positive benefit but you you have to be
willing to open yourself up to some criticism in
order to make yourself heard or to have your
influence felt in certain circles. Aggies pretty
well do that. What's the difference between a
brand new second lieutenant from A&M and a brand
new second lieutenant from West Point or now the
Air Force Academy? That's a tough one because I've
never had that much exposure to the West Point
lieutenants. Most of the West Pointers I've known
have been higher ranking officers. I would say
that probably the same basic spirits are going to
be there. The same degree of self-assurance might
not be a bad word. Spunkiness.
You're taught that you maybe are a little bit of cut
above the average bear, and you believe that after
a while. And if you believe it, chances are you'll
act like it's true. I would say that probably the
spirit between the three institutions are really
not all that far apart. That's just an opinion I
have. I've heard before from Aggies who have
worked for Academy graduates that they're sort of
a ring-knockers club, and that the way to get the
best jobs or to get the fastest promotion is to be
from the Academy. Does not being from the Academy
even for reserve officers, does that hold you back
in any way? Did you ever find that, or do you think
that that's just an excuse for something? I think
it's probably true to some extent in that if people
in positions of authority,
they try to identify young people that have
potential.
We use a term in the military that if you're ever
going to really amount to anything rank-wise,
you've got to have a sponsor, one or more sponsors.
By that, we mean some higher...